>A lot of women, it's true, face violence from the men in their lives if they
don't wear the niqab.  But in cases like these the niqab is a red herring.
It's a distraction.  If you take the niqab out of the equation, it becomes
obvious what we're dealing with.  We have a name for it: it's called an
*abusive relationship*, and it takes lots of different forms including, it
must be said, that of a Muslim man forcing certain articles of clothing on
his wife/daughter/sister.  It does not, however, get solved by fixating on
the particular form of the abuse.  It doesn't get solved by fixating on the
niqab.  We have ways of dealing with abusive relationships that don't
involve banning articles of clothing.  Or at least we should.  If we don't,
we have much bigger problems than niqabs.

>Obviously, if a woman is being forced to wear a niqab, this is a proper
justification for state intervention - in other words, a law.  But let's get
one thing clear: the state shouldn't be intervening because a niqab is
involved.  The state should be intervening because *force* is involved.  It
would be no different if, say, a woman from a conservative Christian family
were threatened with violence over wearning a bikini at the beach.  One
would not, presumably, solve such problems by banning one piece suits at the
beach.

Or, perhaps more realistically, it would be no different if, say, a woman
(or a man, for that matter) from a conservative Christian family were
threatened with violence over her sexual orientation.

As for the notion that the niqab is incompatible with western values...well,
it's a piece of cloth.  It's not incompatible with anything, except perhaps
fashion sense.  Do you know what *is* incompatible with western values?  The
denial of choice, whether that denial is perpetrated by men who try to
control women via pieces of cloth, or people who willfully mistake the
tools of oppression for the act of oppression itself.

This feels like fairly straightforward liberalism to me and yet I know there
is a significant cross section of the population who have trouble
distinguishing between

* being in favour of X
* being in favour of being able to choose X

I'm not in favour of the niqab.  I'm in favour of being able to choose the
niqab.  It's a critical difference, *the* critical difference, the only one
that matters.   I am not a defender of Islam.  I am a defender of choice.

Yes some women don't get that choice.  This is a problem - it is, in fact,
*the* problem.  One doesn't fight this problem by removing the choice in the
opposite direction.


It's wrong to focus on the niqab in situations like these.  Do you think
banning the niqab will prevent the abuse?

Another common criticism can be phrased like this:

"By not banning the niqab, you approve of it.  Or at least you refrain from
judgement.  This makes you a culural relativist".

This is often followed by criticism directed at multiculturalism in
general.  The problem here is that you are conflating two ideas:

* the niqab should not be forbidden
* you refrain from judging the practise of wearing the niqab.


I'm not what one would call a "relativist".  I don't believe that a person
gets to do whatever he wants just because it's dictated by his culture.
Certain principles are absolute; one of those principles is freedom of
expression.  One practical consequence of this is that people have the right
to wear the hell they want.

desmond

dsweamjnonbxd
